# 17.5, 17.6: Constructers and Methods
# 17.5 Improving our Constructor

- Our constructor so far can only create points at location `(0,0)`
- To create a point at position (7, 6) requires that we provide some additional capability for the user to pass information to the constructor.
- Since constructors are simply specially named functions, we can use parameters (as we’ve seen before) to provide the specific information.
- We can make our class constructor more general by putting extra parameters into the `__init__` method: `self.x = initX` & `self.y = inity`

```python
class Point:
	""" Point class for representing and manipulating x,y coordinates. """

	def __init__(self, initX, initY):
		""" Create a new point at the given coordinates. """
		self.x = initX
		self.y = initY
p = Point(7, 6)
```

- Now when we create new points, we supply the x and y coordinates as parameters. When the point is created, the values of﻿ `initX` and ﻿`initY` are assigned to the state of the object.
# 17.6 Adding other Methods (kinda functions) to our Class
-  Rather than using a tuple for our points, `(7, 6)` , we can use the `Point` class we made to add methods for operations on the points given
- Creating a class like `Point` brings an exceptional amount of “organizational power” to our programs, and to our thinking.
- **A method behaves like a function but it is invoked on a specific instance.**
- For example, with a turtle named `tess`, `tess.right(90)` asks the `tess` object to perform its `right` method and turn 90 degrees
- **Methods are accessed using dot notation.**
### Example:
- The `getX` method, when invoked, will return the value of the x coordinate.
    - The implementation of this method is straight forward since we already know how to write functions that return values
- Even though the `get` X method does not need any other parameter information to do its work, there is still one formal parameter, `self`
    - **All methods defined in a class that operate on objects of that class will have** **self** **as their first parameter.**
```python
class Point:
    """ Point class for representing and manipulating x,y coordinates. """
    
    def __init__(self, initX, initY):
        """ Create a new point at the given coordinates. """
        self.x = initX
        self.y = initY
    
    def getX(self):
        return self.x
    
    def getY(self):
        return self.y
    
    
p = Point(7, 6)
print(p.getX())
print(p.getY())
```

Output:
`7`
`6`


- Note that the `getX` & `getY` method simply returns the value of `self.x` & `self.y` from the object itself.
    - In other words, the implementation of the method is to go to the state of the object itself and get the value of `x` & `y`

- Example:
- Let’s add another method, `distanceFromOrigin`
- This method will again not need any additional information to do its work.
```python
class Point:
    """ Point class for representing and manipulating x,y coordinates. """
    
    def __init__(self, initX, initY):
        """ Create a new point at the given coordinates. """
        self.x = initX
        self.y = initY
    
    def getX(self):
        return self.x
    
    def getY(self):
        return self.y
    
    def distanceFromOrigin(self):
        return ((self.x ** 2) + (self.y ** 2)) ** 0.5
    
    
p = Point(7, 6)
print(p.distanceFromOrigin())
```

    9.219544457292887

- Notice that the caller of `distanceFromOrigin` does not explicitly supply an argument to match the `self` parameter.
- This is true of all method calls